In a previous video, we used Claude
[music] to build a complete presentation
from a single prompt.
Now, let's go further.
Adding new sections, making targeted
edits,
transforming bullet-heavy slides into
visuals,
and even creating native charts.
Our fintech assessment mentions AI
multiple times, but there's no dedicated
slide that pulls all of this together.
Let's tell Claude to add a new slide
that brings these ideas together.
We'll ask it to ask questions as needed
to fit in our new slide.
That last sentence triggers Claude to
think before building. Instead of
generating the slide immediately, Claude
reads the existing content, considers
what's missing, and asks clarifying
questions first. Like [music] which AI
native players to feature, or how
technical the slide should be relative
to the rest of the deck.
Once you've answered, Claude generates
the slide with your input already
factored in. It pulls the growth data
from the existing slides and organizes
the application areas into a structured
format.
The fonts, colors, and spacing match the
rest of the deck.
The new slide fits seamlessly into the
flow.
If we want [music] to adjust it, we can
select the slide and say, "Add a data
point about how AI is reducing fraud
losses for neobanks specifically."
Claude adds the bullet to the selected
slide without touching anything else.
>> [music]
>> It places the new content in the correct
text box and matches the existing
formatting.
Claude also tells you where it sourced
the additional data.
This is a common workflow. You notice a
gap in your argument, and instead of
switching to a browser to draft text
[music] and manually formatting a new
slide, you describe what's missing, and
Claude fills it in.
Claude knows which slide and object you
have selected.
This makes targeted [music] edits fast.
The regulatory landscape slide is the
densest in the deck.
It has four subsections,
>> [music]
>> each with nested bullets covering open
banking, real-time payments, digital
assets, and compliance.
That's a lot to process on screen.
Let's select just the compliance and
data governance section.
We'll tell Claude [music]
simplify this section. It currently
lists Dora, GDPR, the regtech [music]
market figure, and regulatory sandboxes.
Condense it into one line that captures
the key point. [music]
Claude rewrites that section in one
line. The other three sections on the
slide stay untouched. Claude only
modified the content we selected.
We can also make precise [music] changes
to individual elements.
The slide title reads regulatory
landscape, which is generic.
We can select the title and say, Make
this title more specific to the story
we're telling. Claude changes it to
regulation as a growth catalyst. The
body content stays the same.
This kind of precision matters when
you're polishing a deck for a specific
audience. You don't want to regenerate
an entire slide to fix one headline or
tighten one paragraph.
Claude lets you work at the level of
individual objects, the same way you'd
edit manually, but faster.
Bullet-heavy slides are one of the most
common presentation problems.
Claude can convert them into native
PowerPoint visuals. [music]
The emerging trend slide has four
sections, each with [music] nested
bullet points.
We can tell Claude, Convert this slide
into a visual layout with four blocks,
one per trend.
>> [music]
>> Each block should have the trend name,
the key metric or growth figure,
and one sentence on why it matters.
>> [music]
>> Claude produces a layout with four
evenly spaced content [music] blocks
using the template's color scheme and
fonts.
Each block highlights the trend name as
a subheading, pulls the [music] most
important number, such as the 8.4
billion to 69.3 billion by 2032 for AI,
and adds a concise description.
The dense bullet list is now a scannable
visual.
These are native PowerPoint shapes and
text boxes, not a static image.
You can move, resize, recolor, and edit
each element individually.
The difference between a slide full of
bullets and a slide with a clear visual
structure is often the difference
between [music] an audience that follows
your argument and one that checks their
email.
Claude makes that conversion fast.
Claude can also generate native
PowerPoint charts from data already in
your deck or from data you describe.
The competitive [music] landscape slide
currently presents five companies in a
table.
Tables are useful for reference, but
they don't show relative positioning at
a glance.
We can ask [music] Claude, "Turn this
table into a 2x2 matrix with revenue
scale on the x-axis [music] and growth
rate on the y-axis.
Plot each company based on the data in
the table. Create icons for each
company."
Claude builds a quadrant chart using
native shapes and positioned labels.
Everything is native and editable.
>> [music]
>> You can reposition labels, adjust axes,
or add a new company without rebuilding
the visual.
Now, let's look at the regional
landscape slide. [music]
It currently shows a bar chart with
market share percentages and CAGR
figures for four regions.
The problem is that the chart only
visualizes one dimension, [music]
share,
while the growth rates sit in the legend
text.
The most interesting [music] insight
that rest of world has the smallest
share but the highest growth rate is
hard to spot.
Let's tell Claude. This chart is trying
to show two things at once, market share
and growth rate.
Replace it with a visualization that
makes both dimensions clear. [music]
I want the audience to immediately see
which regions are large today versus
which are growing fastest.
Claude replaces the bar chart with a
clustered horizontal bar chart.
>> [music]
>> The bars are scaled proportionally so
the contrast is immediate. The audience
can now see both dimensions at once
without reading legend text.
The chart is native and editable.
You can reposition elements, [music]
adjust colors, or restyle the labels
directly in PowerPoint.
From adding sections to reshaping slides
to building charts, Claude handles the
heavy lifting so you can focus on the
story your deck needs to tell.